# NMEA-0183-Optical-Link
FdEng Marine Electrical &amp; Electronic: Final Project. NMEA 0183 multiplexed fiber optic link. 
# Abstract
The standardised protocol between navigation & communication equipment on board merchant vessels is NMEA 0183. The NMEA 0183 protocol utilises the TIA/EIA 422-B serial data standard as its transmission medium [1]. The TIA/EIA 422-B standard (Commonly referred to as RS422), is a balanced double-current interchange circuit that supports data rates of up to 10Mbit/s [2]. The electrical configuration of RS422 employs a matched twisted pair that can support wire lengths of up to 4Km. In practice, shielded data cable (CAT5 STP & above) is commonly employed which offers good noise immunity to some extent. The effective noise immunity and long transmission distances can only be achieved given correct termination and separation from EMI & noise sources. 
On board a vessel, there may be a need to run long lengths of NMEA (or any RS422/485 type protocol) through areas of high EMI or electrical noise. For example, a transducer mounted on the aft of the vessel may have to run its NMEA cable(s) via the engine room to reach the bridge, this may pass through switchboard rooms, converter rooms and may also be run alongside or very close to high voltage conductors. All these areas can pose challenges due to the high levels of electrical noise and EMI. 
Utilising an optical based link means the transmission medium for the NMEA data is completely immune to any sources of noise, meaning the optical cable can be run alongside any other conductor. This can reduce costs by eliminating the need for extra deck/bulkhead penetrations, fire rated glands and additional time needed to implement the segregation of power and data conductors. Along with this, the fibre can be used as a “backbone”, carrying multiple NMEA sentences down a single fibre, eliminating the need to run multiple fibres or multiple STP cables. This can be particularly useful in a situation where there is a cluster of NMEA devices located a considerable distance from the bridge (i.e. up forward or up mast). Additionally, there is no possibility of ground loops across the optical link and the NMEA devices at each end of the optical link can be considered to be optically isolated from one another.
